README.md, before:

<!-- markdownlint-disable MD033 MD041 -->
<h1 align="center">
  <b>CadentialAI</b> <img src="UFO/assets/ufo_blue.png" alt="CadentialAI logo" width="40"> :&nbsp;Personal&nbsp;Windows&nbsp;AI&nbsp;Assistant
</h1>
<p align="center">
  <em>Your intelligent personal assistant for Windows, powered by UFO² framework for seamless desktop automation and productivity enhancement.</em>
</p>

<div align="center">

![Python Version](https://img.shields.io/badge/Python-3776AB?&logo=python&logoColor=white-blue&label=3.10%20%7C%203.11)&ensp;
[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)&ensp;
[![Powered by UFO²](https://img.shields.io/badge/Powered%20by-UFO²-blue)](https://github.com/microsoft/UFO)&ensp;
[![Personal Project](https://img.shields.io/badge/Type-Personal%20AI%20Assistant-green)]()

</div>

<h1 align="center">
    <img src="./UFO/assets/comparison.png" width="60%"/> 
</h1>

---

## 🎯 Project Vision

**CadentialAI** is my personal Windows AI assistant project, built on top of Microsoft's UFO² framework. It serves as an intelligent companion that understands natural language commands and automates complex desktop workflows across multiple applications. The goal is to create a truly personalized AI assistant that learns from my usage patterns and becomes increasingly helpful over time.

---

## ✨ Core Capabilities
<div align="center">

| **Smart Desktop Automation** | **Contextual Learning** | **Multi-Application Workflows** |
|---------------------|-------------------------------------------|---------------------------|
| Leverages UFO²'s advanced Windows integration for precise control detection and native API usage. | Learns from my personal usage patterns and preferences to provide increasingly personalized assistance. | Seamlessly coordinates actions across Office, browsers, development tools, and system utilities. |

| **Voice & Text Interface** | **Personal Knowledge Base** | **Productivity Optimization** |
|--------------------------|--------------------------------|--------------------------------|
| Accepts commands through both voice input and text, adapting to my preferred interaction style. | Builds a personalized knowledge base from my documents, emails, and work patterns. | Identifies repetitive tasks and suggests or automates workflow improvements. |

</div>

---

## 🏗️ Architecture Overview

CadentialAI is built as a layer on top of UFO²'s **Desktop AgentOS**, incorporating:

1. **Personal Command Interface** – Natural language processing for voice and text commands with personalized vocabulary
2. **UFO² Integration Layer** – Direct integration with UFO²'s HostAgent and AppAgent systems for desktop automation
3. **Learning Engine** – Machine learning components that adapt to my personal workflows and preferences
4. **Knowledge Management** – Personal document indexing, email integration, and contextual information retrieval
5. **Productivity Analytics** – Tracking and optimization of my daily computer usage patterns
6. **Custom Skill Modules** – Specialized modules for my specific workflows (development, writing, research, etc.)

Built on UFO²'s proven foundation of Windows UIA, Win32, and WinCOM integration for reliable desktop control.

---

## 🚀 Getting Started

### 🛠️ Prerequisites
- **Python >= 3.10** 
- **Windows OS >= 10**
- **UFO² Framework** (included)
- **OpenAI API Key** (for GPT-4 integration)

### ⚙️ Installation
```powershell
# Clone the CadentialAI repository
git clone https://github.com/yourusername/CadentialAI.git
cd CadentialAI

# Clone the UFO² framework
git clone https://github.com/microsoft/UFO.git

# Create virtual environment
python -m venv .venv
.venv\Scripts\activate

# Install all dependencies
pip install -r requirements.txt

# Install UFO dependencies
cd UFO
pip install -r requirements.txt
cd ..
```

### 🔧 Configuration
1. Copy the configuration template:
```powershell
copy UFO\ufo\config\config.yaml.template UFO\ufo\config\config.yaml
```

2. Add your OpenAI API key and configure personal settings:
```yaml
HOST_AGENT:
  API_TYPE: "openai"
  API_KEY: "your-openai-api-key"
  API_MODEL: "gpt-4o"
  
APP_AGENT:
  API_TYPE: "openai"
  API_KEY: "your-openai-api-key"
  API_MODEL: "gpt-4o"
```

### 🎉 Launch CadentialAI
```powershell
cd UFO
python -m ufo --task "personal_assistant"
```

---

## 🎯 Current Features

- **Desktop Automation**: Full UFO² integration for Windows application control
- **Natural Language Processing**: Understands conversational commands
- **Basic Learning**: Remembers frequently used commands and preferences
- **Multi-App Workflows**: Coordinates tasks across different applications
- **Personal Configuration**: Customizable behavior and response patterns
- **FL Studio Integration**: Specialized music production workflow automation

---

## 📈 Future Plans

### Phase 1: Enhanced Personalization (Q2 2024)
- [ ] **Advanced Voice Integration**
  - Custom wake word recognition ("Hey Cadential")
  - Conversation memory and context
  - Voice-first interaction mode
  - Real-time voice commands during work
- [ ] **Personal Habit Learning**
  - Daily routine recognition and automation
  - Predictive task suggestions based on time/context
  - Smart calendar integration and meeting prep
  - Workflow pattern detection and optimization
- [ ] **Enhanced Document Management**
  - Personal document indexing and intelligent search
  - Email integration and automated responses
  - Note-taking and knowledge capture from conversations
  - Cross-reference personal knowledge base

### Phase 2: Advanced Intelligence (Q3 2024)
- [ ] **Proactive Assistance**
  - Ambient computing awareness (detect what I'm working on)
  - Background task optimization and scheduling
  - Smart notification management and filtering
  - Context-aware interruption handling
- [ ] **Creative Workflow Support**
  - Deep FL Studio integration for music production
  - Creative writing assistance and idea generation
  - Project management automation across creative tools
  - Inspiration capture and organization system
- [ ] **Development Assistant Features**
  - Code review and optimization suggestions
  - Automated testing and deployment workflows
  - Development environment management
  - Bug tracking and resolution assistance

### Phase 3: Deep Integration (Q4 2024)
- [ ] **Contextual Computing**
  - Advanced understanding of work/personal contexts
  - Mood and energy level adaptation
  - Smart focus mode and deep work protection
  - Adaptive interface based on current activities
- [ ] **Advanced Automation**
  - Complex multi-step workflow creation and execution
  - Cross-application data synchronization
  - Smart home integration (lighting, music, environment)
  - Automated backup and file organization
- [ ] **Personal AI Evolution**
  - Personality development that reflects my preferences
  - Advanced reasoning about personal goals and priorities
  - Long-term pattern recognition and life optimization
  - Proactive goal tracking and achievement support

### Phase 4: Ecosystem Expansion (2025)
- [ ] **Mobile Companion App**
  - Remote desktop control from anywhere
  - Mobile-to-desktop task handoff seamlessly
  - Location-based automation triggers
  - Voice commands on mobile that execute on desktop
- [ ] **Cloud Intelligence**
  - Personal data analytics and insights dashboard
  - Cross-device learning synchronization
  - Advanced predictive modeling for productivity
  - Personal metrics and self-improvement suggestions
- [ ] **Professional Integration**
  - Team collaboration features for shared projects
  - Work-focused automation suites
  - Professional network integration
  - Client communication and project management

### Phase 5: Advanced Personal Features (2025+)
- [ ] **Lifestyle Integration**
  - Health and wellness tracking integration
  - Personal finance management and insights
  - Entertainment and media consumption optimization
  - Social interaction and relationship management
- [ ] **Learning and Growth**
  - Personal skill development tracking
  - Educational content curation and delivery
  - Knowledge gap identification and filling
  - Career development planning and support
- [ ] **Creative Partnership**
  - Co-creative AI for music, writing, and art
  - Idea development and refinement assistance
  - Creative project planning and execution
  - Inspiration synthesis from various sources

### Ongoing Development Priorities
- [ ] **Security & Privacy**
  - End-to-end encryption for all personal data
  - Local-first processing options for sensitive information
  - Granular privacy controls and data ownership
  - Regular security audits and updates
- [ ] **Performance Optimization**
  - Reduced resource usage and battery optimization
  - Faster response times and predictive loading
  - Efficient background processing
  - Smart resource allocation based on current tasks
- [ ] **Accessibility & Inclusion**
  - Enhanced accessibility controls for all users
  - Multi-language support for global use
  - Customizable interaction modes for different needs
  - Voice-only operation for hands-free scenarios

---

## 🔧 Technical Stack

- **Core Framework**: Microsoft UFO² (Desktop AgentOS)
- **AI/ML**: OpenAI GPT-4o, planned local LLM integration
- **Voice Processing**: Windows Speech Platform, Azure Speech Services
- **Desktop Integration**: Windows UIA, Win32, WinCOM APIs
- **Data Storage**: Vector databases for personal knowledge, local SQLite
- **Development**: Python 3.10+, Modern async/await patterns
- **UI Framework**: Planned - Custom WPF/WinUI interface

---

## 📁 Project Structure

```
CadentialAI/
├── UFO/                    # UFO² framework (submodule)
├── cadential/              # Personal AI assistant modules
│   ├── core/              # Core CadentialAI functionality
│   ├── skills/            # Specialized skill modules
│   ├── learning/          # Personal learning and adaptation
│   └── interfaces/        # Voice, text, and GUI interfaces
├── config/                # Personal configuration files
├── data/                  # Personal knowledge base and logs
└── docs/                  # Project documentation
```

---

## 📝 Development Philosophy

CadentialAI is designed with these principles:
- **Privacy First**: Personal data stays local when possible, full user control
- **Learning Oriented**: Continuously improves through usage and feedback
- **Non-Intrusive**: Enhances workflow without disrupting natural patterns
- **Extensible**: Modular design for easy customization and feature addition
- **Reliable**: Built on UFO²'s proven Windows automation foundation
- **Personal**: Adapts to individual preferences and working styles

---

## 🎵 Special Features

### FL Studio Integration
CadentialAI includes specialized modules for music production:
- Voice commands for FL Studio workflow automation
- Pattern recognition and beat creation assistance
- Project organization and sample management
- Collaboration tools for music projects

### Personal Productivity
- Smart task scheduling based on energy levels and calendar
- Automated email sorting and response suggestions
- Document organization with intelligent tagging
- Meeting preparation and follow-up automation

---

## 🤝 Contributing

This is a personal project, but I welcome:
- Feature suggestions and ideas for improvement
- Bug reports and testing feedback
- Documentation improvements and clarifications
- Discussion about AI assistant patterns and best practices
- Collaboration on specific features or modules

---

## 📄 License & Attribution

This project is released under the [MIT License](LICENSE).

**Built on UFO² Framework** by Microsoft Research:
- UFO² Paper: <https://arxiv.org/abs/2504.14603>
- UFO² Repository: <https://github.com/microsoft/UFO>

Special thanks to the UFO² team for creating such a powerful foundation for Windows desktop automation.

---

## 📞 Contact

For questions, suggestions, or collaboration:
- **Project**: CadentialAI - Personal Windows AI Assistant
- **Developer**: Scott
- **GitHub Issues**: For bug reports and feature requests
- **Built with**: Microsoft UFO² Framework

---

<p align="center"><sub>CadentialAI • Personal AI Assistant • Built with UFO² • 2024</sub></p>

Commit message:

feat: implement secure API key management and enhance configuration setup

README.md, after:

<!-- markdownlint-disable MD033 MD041 -->
<h1 align="center">
  <b>CadentialAI</b> <img src="UFO/assets/ufo_blue.png" alt="CadentialAI logo" width="40"> :&nbsp;Personal&nbsp;Windows&nbsp;AI&nbsp;Assistant
</h1>
<p align="center">
  <em>Your intelligent personal assistant for Windows, powered by UFO² framework for seamless desktop automation and productivity enhancement.</em>
</p>

<div align="center">

![Python Version](https://img.shields.io/badge/Python-3776AB?&logo=python&logoColor=white-blue&label=3.10%20%7C%203.11)&ensp;
[![License: MIT](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg)](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT)&ensp;
[![Powered by UFO²](https://img.shields.io/badge/Powered%20by-UFO²-blue)](https://github.com/microsoft/UFO)&ensp;
[![Personal Project](https://img.shields.io/badge/Type-Personal%20AI%20Assistant-green)]()

</div>

<h1 align="center">
    <img src="./UFO/assets/comparison.png" width="60%"/> 
</h1>

---

## 🎯 Project Vision

**CadentialAI** is my personal Windows AI assistant project, built on top of Microsoft's UFO² framework. It serves as an intelligent companion that understands natural language commands and automates complex desktop workflows across multiple applications. The goal is to create a truly personalized AI assistant that learns from my usage patterns and becomes increasingly helpful over time.

---

## ✨ Core Capabilities
<div align="center">

| **Smart Desktop Automation** | **Contextual Learning** | **Multi-Application Workflows** |
|---------------------|-------------------------------------------|---------------------------|
| Leverages UFO²'s advanced Windows integration for precise control detection and native API usage. | Learns from my personal usage patterns and preferences to provide increasingly personalized assistance. | Seamlessly coordinates actions across Office, browsers, development tools, and system utilities. |

| **Voice & Text Interface** | **Personal Knowledge Base** | **Productivity Optimization** |
|--------------------------|--------------------------------|--------------------------------|
| Accepts commands through both voice input and text, adapting to my preferred interaction style. | Builds a personalized knowledge base from my documents, emails, and work patterns. | Identifies repetitive tasks and suggests or automates workflow improvements. |

</div>

---

## 🏗️ Architecture Overview

CadentialAI is built as a layer on top of UFO²'s **Desktop AgentOS**, incorporating:

1. **Personal Command Interface** – Natural language processing for voice and text commands with personalized vocabulary
2. **UFO² Integration Layer** – Direct integration with UFO²'s HostAgent and AppAgent systems for desktop automation
3. **Learning Engine** – Machine learning components that adapt to my personal workflows and preferences
4. **Knowledge Management** – Personal document indexing, email integration, and contextual information retrieval
5. **Productivity Analytics** – Tracking and optimization of my daily computer usage patterns
6. **Custom Skill Modules** – Specialized modules for my specific workflows (development, writing, research, etc.)

Built on UFO²'s proven foundation of Windows UIA, Win32, and WinCOM integration for reliable desktop control.

---

## 🚀 Getting Started

### 🛠️ Prerequisites
- **Python >= 3.10** 
- **Windows OS >= 10**
- **UFO² Framework** (included)
- **OpenAI API Key** (for GPT-4 integration)

### ⚙️ Installation
```powershell
# Clone the CadentialAI repository (includes UFO framework)
git clone https://github.com/yourusername/CadentialAI.git
cd CadentialAI

# Create virtual environment
python -m venv .venv
.venv\Scripts\activate

# Install all dependencies
pip install -r requirements.txt

# Install UFO dependencies
pip install -r UFO\requirements.txt

# Setup configuration files
.\setup.ps1 -SetupConfig
```

### 🔐 API Configuration
```powershell
# Edit your API keys in the config file (this file is not tracked by Git)
notepad config.yaml

# Also configure UFO settings
notepad UFO\config\config.yaml
```

**Important**: The `config.yaml` file contains your API keys and is automatically excluded from Git commits for security.

### 🔧 Configuration
1. Copy the configuration template:
```powershell
copy UFO\ufo\config\config.yaml.template UFO\ufo\config\config.yaml
```

2. Add your OpenAI API key and configure personal settings:
```yaml
HOST_AGENT:
  API_TYPE: "openai"
  API_KEY: "your-openai-api-key"
  API_MODEL: "gpt-4o"
  
APP_AGENT:
  API_TYPE: "openai"
  API_KEY: "your-openai-api-key"
  API_MODEL: "gpt-4o"
```

### 🎉 Launch CadentialAI
```powershell
# Start CadentialAI (it will automatically load UFO framework)
python cadential_ai.py

# Or run UFO directly
cd UFO
python -m ufo --task "personal_assistant"
```

---

## 🎯 Current Features

- **Desktop Automation**: Full UFO² integration for Windows application control
- **Natural Language Processing**: Understands conversational commands
- **Basic Learning**: Remembers frequently used commands and preferences
- **Multi-App Workflows**: Coordinates tasks across different applications
- **Personal Configuration**: Customizable behavior and response patterns
- **FL Studio Integration**: Specialized music production workflow automation

---

## 📈 Future Plans

### Phase 1: Enhanced Personalization (Q2 2024)
- [ ] **Advanced Voice Integration**
  - Custom wake word recognition ("Hey Cadential")
  - Conversation memory and context
  - Voice-first interaction mode
  - Real-time voice commands during work
- [ ] **Personal Habit Learning**
  - Daily routine recognition and automation
  - Predictive task suggestions based on time/context
  - Smart calendar integration and meeting prep
  - Workflow pattern detection and optimization
- [ ] **Enhanced Document Management**
  - Personal document indexing and intelligent search
  - Email integration and automated responses
  - Note-taking and knowledge capture from conversations
  - Cross-reference personal knowledge base

### Phase 2: Advanced Intelligence (Q3 2024)
- [ ] **Proactive Assistance**
  - Ambient computing awareness (detect what I'm working on)
  - Background task optimization and scheduling
  - Smart notification management and filtering
  - Context-aware interruption handling
- [ ] **Creative Workflow Support**
  - Deep FL Studio integration for music production
  - Creative writing assistance and idea generation
  - Project management automation across creative tools
  - Inspiration capture and organization system
- [ ] **Development Assistant Features**
  - Code review and optimization suggestions
  - Automated testing and deployment workflows
  - Development environment management
  - Bug tracking and resolution assistance

### Phase 3: Deep Integration (Q4 2024)
- [ ] **Contextual Computing**
  - Advanced understanding of work/personal contexts
  - Mood and energy level adaptation
  - Smart focus mode and deep work protection
  - Adaptive interface based on current activities
- [ ] **Advanced Automation**
  - Complex multi-step workflow creation and execution
  - Cross-application data synchronization
  - Smart home integration (lighting, music, environment)
  - Automated backup and file organization
- [ ] **Personal AI Evolution**
  - Personality development that reflects my preferences
  - Advanced reasoning about personal goals and priorities
  - Long-term pattern recognition and life optimization
  - Proactive goal tracking and achievement support

### Phase 4: Ecosystem Expansion (2025)
- [ ] **Mobile Companion App**
  - Remote desktop control from anywhere
  - Mobile-to-desktop task handoff seamlessly
  - Location-based automation triggers
  - Voice commands on mobile that execute on desktop
- [ ] **Cloud Intelligence**
  - Personal data analytics and insights dashboard
  - Cross-device learning synchronization
  - Advanced predictive modeling for productivity
  - Personal metrics and self-improvement suggestions
- [ ] **Professional Integration**
  - Team collaboration features for shared projects
  - Work-focused automation suites
  - Professional network integration
  - Client communication and project management

### Phase 5: Advanced Personal Features (2025+)
- [ ] **Lifestyle Integration**
  - Health and wellness tracking integration
  - Personal finance management and insights
  - Entertainment and media consumption optimization
  - Social interaction and relationship management
- [ ] **Learning and Growth**
  - Personal skill development tracking
  - Educational content curation and delivery
  - Knowledge gap identification and filling
  - Career development planning and support
- [ ] **Creative Partnership**
  - Co-creative AI for music, writing, and art
  - Idea development and refinement assistance
  - Creative project planning and execution
  - Inspiration synthesis from various sources

### Ongoing Development Priorities
- [ ] **Security & Privacy**
  - End-to-end encryption for all personal data
  - Local-first processing options for sensitive information
  - Granular privacy controls and data ownership
  - Regular security audits and updates
- [ ] **Performance Optimization**
  - Reduced resource usage and battery optimization
  - Faster response times and predictive loading
  - Efficient background processing
  - Smart resource allocation based on current tasks
- [ ] **Accessibility & Inclusion**
  - Enhanced accessibility controls for all users
  - Multi-language support for global use
  - Customizable interaction modes for different needs
  - Voice-only operation for hands-free scenarios

---

## 🔧 Technical Stack

- **Core Framework**: Microsoft UFO² (Desktop AgentOS)
- **AI/ML**: OpenAI GPT-4o, planned local LLM integration
- **Voice Processing**: Windows Speech Platform, Azure Speech Services
- **Desktop Integration**: Windows UIA, Win32, WinCOM APIs
- **Data Storage**: Vector databases for personal knowledge, local SQLite
- **Development**: Python 3.10+, Modern async/await patterns
- **UI Framework**: Planned - Custom WPF/WinUI interface

---

## 📁 Project Structure

```
CadentialAI/
├── UFO/                    # UFO² framework (submodule)
├── cadential/              # Personal AI assistant modules
│   ├── core/              # Core CadentialAI functionality
│   ├── skills/            # Specialized skill modules
│   ├── learning/          # Personal learning and adaptation
│   └── interfaces/        # Voice, text, and GUI interfaces
├── config/                # Personal configuration files
├── data/                  # Personal knowledge base and logs
└── docs/                  # Project documentation
```

---

## 📝 Development Philosophy

CadentialAI is designed with these principles:
- **Privacy First**: Personal data stays local when possible, full user control
- **Learning Oriented**: Continuously improves through usage and feedback
- **Non-Intrusive**: Enhances workflow without disrupting natural patterns
- **Extensible**: Modular design for easy customization and feature addition
- **Reliable**: Built on UFO²'s proven Windows automation foundation
- **Personal**: Adapts to individual preferences and working styles

---

## 🎵 Special Features

### FL Studio Integration
CadentialAI includes specialized modules for music production:
- Voice commands for FL Studio workflow automation
- Pattern recognition and beat creation assistance
- Project organization and sample management
- Collaboration tools for music projects

### Personal Productivity
- Smart task scheduling based on energy levels and calendar
- Automated email sorting and response suggestions
- Document organization with intelligent tagging
- Meeting preparation and follow-up automation

---

## 🤝 Contributing

This is a personal project, but I welcome:
- Feature suggestions and ideas for improvement
- Bug reports and testing feedback
- Documentation improvements and clarifications
- Discussion about AI assistant patterns and best practices
- Collaboration on specific features or modules

---

## 📄 License & Attribution

This project is released under the [MIT License](LICENSE).

**Built on UFO² Framework** by Microsoft Research:
- UFO² Paper: <https://arxiv.org/abs/2504.14603>
- UFO² Repository: <https://github.com/microsoft/UFO>

Special thanks to the UFO² team for creating such a powerful foundation for Windows desktop automation.

---

## 📞 Contact

For questions, suggestions, or collaboration:
- **Project**: CadentialAI - Personal Windows AI Assistant
- **Developer**: Scott
- **GitHub Issues**: For bug reports and feature requests
- **Built with**: Microsoft UFO² Framework

---

<p align="center"><sub>CadentialAI • Personal AI Assistant • Built with UFO² • 2024</sub></p>
